There are things we can do in custom reports that we cannot do in the built-in reports.
For one thing, there are some dimensions that exist in GA but
do not appear as primary dimensions anywhere in the built-in reports.
We can set these dimensions as the primary dimensions in custom reports.
Another very important use of custom reports is
setting our own custom dimensions as primary dimensions.
We'll see several examples of custom dimensions as
primary dimensions in the custom reports that we're going to review coming up.
If we've created any custom metrics in our implementation,
we can include those in our custom reports.
If we have created any calculated metrics,
we can include those in our custom reports as well.
In fact, custom reports are the only way in the Google Analytics UI to
show the custom metrics that you have
populated or the calculated metrics that you have defined.
Just as a reminder,
you do have to create and populate any custom dimensions,
any custom metrics as part of your implementation.
You can't set up custom dimensions and
custom metrics at the same time that you're setting up your custom report.
You have to define and populate them beforehand in
your implementation for you to be able to use them in a custom report.
Same thing for calculated metrics.
You do have to set up calculated metrics before you use them in a custom report,
but you can't create a calculated metric anytime after implementation.
Let's start by defining a couple of custom reports with built-in dimensions that
don't appear as primary dimensions anywhere in the Google Analytics built-in reports.
The dimension that we'll select will be week of year for metric.
Let's add Sessions, bounce, e-commerce conversion rate,
revenue, metric group, performance,
main, week of year,
as the name of the report.
Now, notice that we're only seeing two weeks represented.
That's because we only have a week of data selected.
If we went back to let's say January 14th,
we would see many more weeks are presented.
Let's define a new custom report that shows performance by day of week,
always an interesting report to define,
dimension, Day of Week Name, Metric,
Sessions, bounce, and let's add Goal three conversion rate.
Before we review our metrics,
we'll want to make sure that we do have full
week selected so that we're not favoring any day of the week.
In this case, we are starting on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday.
Or you could start on a Wednesday and end on a Tuesday,
you just want to make sure not to favor any day of the week.
The day of the week with the highest number of sessions is Tuesday,
the day of the week with the highest Goal three conversion rate is also Tuesday,
and the day of the week with the lowest bounce rate is Thursday.
This could potentially influenced some of your marketing campaigns such as pay-per-click.
Let's review several examples of custom dimensions
used as primary dimensions in custom reports.
Here's an example of a hit scope Custom Dimension about
page subject that's used as the primary dimension in a custom report.
Again, the reason this is so important is that you don't want to just apply
subject as a secondary dimension in let's say the pages report.
There are times when you'll want to directly report on your custom dimensions as
the primary reporting dimension and draw the attention to that level.
Using a news site as an example,
if you included a simple yes-no indicator in your content management system,
for whether or not the page contained images,
you could write a variable to the data layer,
read it in as a custom dimension,
and configure a report based on this one factor.
Here, we see that pages that do have images are
performing significantly better in terms of bounce rate,
percent exit, and average session duration.
Let's now define a custom report within the Google merchandise store account.
Using a session scope custom dimension that's been defined there.
Sales region, Metrics, Sessions, Transactions, Revenue.
Again, we can include whatever metrics are most suitable,
we certainly don't have to include the same metrics each time,
that's why these are custom reports.
Ecommerce is the metric group name.
Sales regions is the name,
and now we can see performance by
a sales region dimension that is relevant for the Google merchandise store team.
Other examples of possible session scope custom dimensions to be used in
custom reports are payment method or shipping method.
Examples of product scope custom dimensions in custom reports could be size or color.
Again, remember that you would need to define and
populate these custom dimensions as part of your implementation,
you can't invent custom dimensions at the time you're creating a custom report.
But once you do have custom dimensions populated,
custom reports are a great way to present an analyze them.
As examples of users scope custom dimensions,
we could define our custom reports with industry
if a user selects an industry from a drop-down on a form,
or you're reading it n from the backend through the data layer when a user authenticates.
As an example of a custom metric that we could include in a custom report,
let's say that the National Arbor Day Foundation is having a tree-planting pledge drive,
and they're capturing the number of trees that site visitors are pledging to plant.
We could include this custom metric in a custom report.
To see an example of calculated metrics in a custom report,
we're back in the Google merchandise store account.
For dimension, we'll add device category Metrics,
Sessions, E-commerce Conversion rate, Revenue.
Then, under other which actually means calculated metrics,
we're going to add revenue per user.
So, now we can see not only is conversion rate much lower on mobile and tablet,
even relative to conversion rate,
the revenue per user is very low.
Now, we do want to remember that user is
a little bit of an elusive metric in Google analytics
based on cookies or the user ID field that's populated when a user authenticates.
But it's still a striking to see how low revenue per user is on mobile and on tablet.
This could be a starting point for additional analysis and a potential for optimization.